Coming back to our conversation from last week, you asked why you were "being knocked" for something you thought you were leading by example on.

First, I wouldn't look at it from the perspective that you were "being knocked". A 3 rating reflects that you're meeting and sometimes exceeding expectations for someone in your role on the whole. For someone transitioning into a new role, that's pretty damn good imo. We're identifying areas for you to take things to the "next level" as well as trying to set expectations for your personal development going forward. A 4+ is difficult to achieve as a Staff-level engineer because of the high expectations of that role.

Here are the four areas I highlighted from our previous conversation:

> validating assumptions

This was an observation that I made as you were getting back into the flow of the Android team. Assumptions were made about what types of things were documented, for example not being aware of the contributor guidelines. Additionally, there was the bit about our usage of MvRx's Async being tied to our Repositories, which wasn't a pattern I think we were following so it wasn't clear where you were coming from with the feedback. Generally, I think this was born from your impatience reading through the onboarding coupled with some parts of our documentation being out of date so the signal/noise ratio was out of whack. Going forward, ensuring that diligence is done and questions are answered before working on proposals for change is going to be the most effective approach and I think you've improved with this as you've gotten deeper into understanding the current patterns being followed in the codebase (for example with the Navigation proposal, I think you had a better understanding of what issues we were having with nav in the codebase right now and how it was undocumented/inconsistent)

> getting buy-in with the team

During the quarter you were fairly prolific in terms of filing issues and sparking conversations for improvements to be made in the app and the codebase. I don't want to deter you from that at all. It's absolutely appreciated and you showed good lead by example here in taking extra time out of your day to thoughtfully propose solutions to problems. But, I would say that you didn't see the type of interraction/buy-in that you're capable of getting (i.e. these efforts weren't as successful as they could have been). I think there are two pieces of feedback to give here:

1. While there might be broad general alignment in the team that improvements could be made around many of the issues you raised, we had started the Codebase 2.0 project with the intention of wholistically addressing a lot of the concerns you were bringing up. Instead of pushing to advance the Codebase 2.0 project, you were working on solving things independendly so there was, at least in my mind, a disconnect from your alignment (fixing things as you see them) and the team's alignment (working on a coherent long-term vision that solves lots/most of these smaller issues)
2. Part of getting buy-in and making proposals for change is taking those ideas and feedback and turning them into something actionable. That next step of turning proposals into issues that can be prioritized is somewhere where I think you could have done more. When it comes time to planning and prioritization, you need to bring those ideas and advocate for them to get worked on. For example, there was quick, broad alignment amongst the team about some of the changes to how we were using MvRx (e.g. not having the ViewModel expose an Async) but the ideas weren't articulated into a final proposal that could get its way into planning and so it went stagnant until Codebase 2.0 week.

> continuing to educate himself on modern Android development

This one should be fairly self explanatory, you cited this one yourself. The expectation is that you're continuing to work on becoming a subject matter expert on the Android platform and Android application development again. Similar to the impact feedback below, the expectations will continue to rise as your tenure in your new role increases.

> making an impact on the org outside of Android/Mobile

I went back to the folks from the calibration session that were giving this feedback and I just want to try to set your mind at ease a bit because I don't think I delivered this effectively. I think the feedback here was driven more by lack of visibility than lack of impact (i.e. perception, not reality). I tried to articulate this last week, but the transition from mobile director -> staff android engineer just means that you're not part of as many conversations as you were previously and I think some folks saw that as you "stepping back" a little bit. I think you and I are aligned on the fact that it's hard on a platform team where we're insular from a lot of the rest of the org to have that type of outsized, visible impact. This is something where both you and I need to continuously look for opportunities to have you shine.
